---
layout: post
title: Week Two
---

Things really picked up this week. We started out this week by talking about operators and some limitations we may encounter coming from languages like C and Java, notable the absence of the ++ and – operators. We also have to be mindful of what can be a left-value and right-value in Python. While something like i = ( j +=  k ) is legal in C, it is not legal in Python because ( j += k ) doesn’t return a value and thus cannot be a right-value. 

Another feature of Python is that is places a limit on recursion depth. The limit placed is quite conservative and can be changed with sys.setrecursionlimit(), though this opens the possibility of having a stack overflow. If your particular implementation of a function happens to be tail recursive it’s a good idea to change to an iterative implementation, something the compilers of other languages may do and something we miss out on with Python. 

Professor Downing also introduced us to generators; instead of storing a large list of integers in memory, we can instead store a function that will generate the integers and behave like a list instead. This allows us to save some space in memory, but it does raise the age old space vs. time dilemma often encountered in computer science. If we are only retrieving items from the list every now and then, a generator is a great idea, but if the list is referenced very often it may be ideal to use up more memory and save every item instead of spending the time to generate them.

### Tip of the Week

When you’re looking at documentation online and learning about new modules, take advantage of the Python interpreter and open up a terminal window to start experimenting with examples. It’s a good way to avoid simple errors in your code and to remember syntax if you’re new to the language. As Professor Downing says in class, “Fiddle with it!” 
